(Actions) custom agent builder (#32283)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/actions/agents/_index.md

description: Build custom AI agents that can access the Action Catalog. 
disable_toc: false
further_reading:
- link: "/actions/actions_catalog/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Action Catalog"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/knowledge-center/aiops/ai-agents/"
  tag: "Knowledge Center"
  text: "What are AI agents and how do they work?"
---

{{< callout url="https://app.datadoghq.com/actions/agents" btn_hidden="false" header="Join the Preview!" >}}
Agents is in Preview. Click <b>Request Access</b> and fill in the Datadog Product Preview Program form.
{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

You can build custom AI agents to act on your observability data and third-party integrations. Your agents can use any action from the [Action Catalog][7] to investigate problems, start remediation, or manage resources.

When building an agent, you can choose a template to get started. Templates come with pre-filled instructions and relevant tools. Templates are named after their main role, like Security Analyst, Log Analyzer, Incident Responder, or DevOps Assistant. 

{{< img src="/actions/agents/blank-new-agent.png" alt="The Agents page, filtered to show only 'My agents'" style="width:100%;" >}}

> ## The Agents dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Agents dashboard
```

You can create a new agent from the [Agents][1] page. The page lists information about existing agents, including the following:
- Agent Name
- Description
- Author
- Creation date

Hover over an agent for options to clone or delete it. You can also enable the **My agents** toggle to see only agents that you've created:

{{< img src="/actions/agents/agent-dashboard.png" alt="The Agents page, filtered to show only 'My agents'" style="width:100%;" >}}

## Create an agent

### Build an agent from a blueprint

Blueprints are helpful starter agents that cover common use cases. They come loaded with instructions for the agent's behavior and helpful tools from the Action Catalog. Blueprints also showcase best practices for setting up agent functionality.

To build an agent from a blueprint:

1. Navigate to the [Agents][1] page. 
1. In **Agent Blueprints**, click the blueprint you want to use. 

>     1. Alternatively, you can click **New Agent** and browse the full list of blueprints.

Reviewer: I'd make this one step, since the second line is basically the same thing, just an alternative way of doing it. Proper numbered/lettered substeps are better when you have a longer sub-process with multiple steps.

```suggestion
1. In **Agent Blueprints**, click the blueprint you want to use. Alternatively, you can click **New Agent** and browse the full list of blueprints.
```

1. Click **Create From Blueprint**.

> 1. Your new agent will have pre-populated settings and tools. You can immediately start chatting with the agent or [further customize it](#customize-your-agent). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Your new agent has pre-populated settings and tools. You can immediately start chatting with the agent or [further customize it](#customize-your-agent). 
```

```
You are an Incident Responder AI assistant specialized in managing and coordinating incident response activities.

Your role involves:
- Guiding incident response procedures and best practices
- Helping assess incident severity and impact
- Coordinating communication between teams and stakeholders
- Managing incident lifecycle from detection to resolution
- Facilitating post-incident reviews and improvements

During incident response:
1. Help classify incident severity (P0/P1/P2/etc.)
2. Guide through incident response runbooks and procedures
3. Assist with stakeholder communication and updates
4. Track action items and follow-up tasks
5. Support post-mortem analysis and lessons learned

Focus on clear communication, structured processes, and continuous improvement of incident response capabilities.
```

### Tools

Click **+ Add Tool** to add actions from our [Action Catalog][7] for the agent to use. The agent is restricted to only its added tools. For example, if you encounter an error when the agent attempts to perform a task you've requested, it might be missing a necessary action. 

### MCP Servers

> Click the toggle button to enable [MCP (Model Context Protocol)][8]. MCP servers provide additional tools and capabilities that the agent can use to interact with external systems.

Reviewer: "MCP" is just a list of specifications; the `Datadog MCP Server` is the thing users can actually use.
```suggestion
Click the toggle button to enable the [Datadog MCP Server][8]. MCP servers use the Model Context Protocol to provide additional tools and capabilities that the agent can use to interact with external systems.
```

---
title: Agents
description: Build custom AI agents that can access the Action Catalog. 
disable_toc: false
further_reading:
- link: "/actions/actions_catalog/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Action Catalog"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/knowledge-center/aiops/ai-agents/"
  tag: "Knowledge Center"
  text: "What are AI agents and how do they work?"
---

{{< callout url="https://app.datadoghq.com/actions/agents" btn_hidden="false" header="Join the Preview!" >}}

> Agents is in Preview. Click <b>Request Access</b> and fill in the Datadog Product Preview Program form.

Reviewer: I still think a plural verb reads more naturally, or maybe "The Agents product is in Preview" if you want to keep singular.

```suggestion
Agents are in Preview. Click <b>Request Access</b> and fill in the Datadog Product Preview Program form.
```

- link: "/actions/actions_catalog/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Action Catalog"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/knowledge-center/aiops/ai-agents/"
  tag: "Knowledge Center"
  text: "What are AI agents and how do they work?"
---

{{< callout url="https://app.datadoghq.com/actions/agents" btn_hidden="false" header="Join the Preview!" >}}
Agents is in Preview. Click <b>Request Access</b> and fill in the Datadog Product Preview Program form.
{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

You can build custom AI agents to act on your observability data and third-party integrations. Your agents can use any action from the [Action Catalog][1] to investigate problems, start remediation, or manage resources.

## Start with a template 

When building an agent, you can choose a template to get started. Templates come with pre-filled instructions and relevant tools. Templates are named after their main role, like Security Analyst, Log Analyzer, Incident Responder, or DevOps Assistant. 

{{< img src="/actions/agents/blank-new-agent.png" alt="The Agents page, filtered to show only 'My agents'" style="width:100%;" >}}

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> <br>Do you have questions or feedback? Join the **#workflow-custom-agents** channel on the [Datadog Community Slack][4].

Reviewer 2: This is referencing an internal channel at Datadog and the Community Slack link doesn't work. Let's remove this entire line.
